# Building the Docs

Offering documentation edits while using HDTree is incredibly helpful. 

The automatically generated documentation from source code is 
usually more detailed and is done differently depending on the
language being written, so that "API Reference" is kept in separate
sites for each API. Manually written documentation is also 
separated by API, but are all written here and processed by mdbook.

## Launching Local Version of Docs
After [installing mdbook](https://rust-lang.github.io/mdBook/guide/installation.html), 
you can use it to build and serve the doc website
locally on your computer while you are writing documentation. It will then
automatically refresh the website when it detects that files have changed.

**Note**: Some of the links in the mdbook point to the reference manuals
that are generated differently in order to conform to language-specific
standards, so without generating those manuals those links will be broken.

## Reference Manuals
The different APIs have different methods of generating reference manuals
from the comments in the code. Besides editing the manual documentation
and having it processed by jekyll, these files are copied onto the `gh-pages`
branch into a subdirectory so that they are not modified by jekyll but still
hosted at the same website.

### C++
The C++ reference is generated using [doxygen](https://www.doxygen.nl/manual/install.html)
and the [doxygen-awesome](https://jothepro.github.io/doxygen-awesome-css/) theme.
The theme is kept in a git submodule, so you will need to make sure the submodules are
downloaded for the local version to be the same theme as the online version.
```
git submodule --update --init
```
After installing `doxygen`, it is expected to be run from the root of this repository.
```
doxygen cpp/docs/doxyfile
```
This produces the HTML doxumentation in the `cpp/docs/html` directory.
You can view the HTML files generated by doxygen by opening them 
in your favorite browser. For example,
```
firefox cpp/docs/html/index.html
```
